code with harry tutorial django

installing django after installing python - check if all workng fine first like python v and pip

install django

pip install django
pip install django --upgrade 

pip install django==3.0.4  (installing older version -- of ourse latest is 4 and above but the harry has 3 so..)



to make a project
    django-admin startproject Hello    #this is the name of the project
to start the server
    python manage.py runserver

to check all commands
    python manage.py
from those commands you can see startapp
    python manage.py startapp home     # here home is the name of the app

    #so here hello folder is the project and home is the App 
        #there is settings files in the Hello or project folder -- that will help to show where your templates be stored
                                                                    That will also tell what database you will be using. By default its sqlite3
                                                                    Server Tima and all

There is no urls.py in App which is home folder that we have created
    So make urls.py



# Static file concept and Template concept in django

    Static file (Created folder)
        these are files that anyone can see on your server by checking or coming to urls    
            YOU CAN CHECK THAT STATIC URLS THINGS in Settings.py
        all tge static file will be here.. like txt or images etc.
    Templates   (Created folder)


login to admin  
    /admin     -- you will have some errors from django and that django error page will come But after below commands.. you will have different errors
                    you will have errors like no such table when you try to login.

to check if any changes in the database or schema or anything  -- we are just telling to make a file of what all changes are there.. It wont change anything. it will just check and save the record.
    python manage.py makemigration   
To migrate and django provides some default tables -- to migrate use below commang
    python manage.py migrate

Now use this link you will have different errors --as we have used the migrate command and so it will have all the default tables.
    /admin     ##now error will be Please enter the correct username and password for a staff account. Note that both fields may be case-sensitive.

Now we have to create user .. it can be superuser too.
    python3 manage.py createsuperuser   #this info user and pass will automatically be gone to db.sqlite3



---------------------
model defines our database

python3 manage.py makemigration     #this will just check changes and make a file .. it wont make any changes yet.
    
    #when you make migration with this -- it will show No changes detected. -- SO HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF TWO THINGS FIRST..
        #1. Register your model first in admin of your App
        #2. Register your App - Copy the Name from the Apps and go to settings And paste it in the Installed APP home.apps.HomeConfig

Now when you Run makmigration   ---  it will generate migration file.. But wont make change to anything there. It will just check and generate the file if any changes

Now you can migrate

python3 manage.py migrate        ---- This will create table now. -- you can check that in Django Admin too. The Table is there.

Adding Records
NOT RECOMMENDED
    #Now you can add Record directly from Admin of Django
BEST WAY or IDEAL WAY
    #Now write logic of Adding Record in the Views





                                                            




